# Roadmap V1

> Note: Only the desktop version of the software is considered within scope for the v1 release. Follow up releases will be applied to all other platforms in order to catch up. The desktop version was selected as it supports the integration of all features.


  * [Features](#features)
    + [1 Build Pipeline](#1-build-pipeline)
      - [Goal](#goal)
      - [Outcome](#outcome)
    + [2 Webview vs Electron](#2-webview-vs-electron)
      - [Goal](#goal-1)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-1)
    + [3 Sovereign Identity](#3-sovereign-identity)
      - [Goal](#goal-2)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-2)
    + [4 Third Party Plugins](#4-third-party-plugins)
      - [Goal](#goal-3)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-3)
    + [5 Installer](#5-installer)
      - [Goal](#goal-4)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-4)
    + [6 Verto Authenication Research](#6-verto-authenication-research)
      - [Goal](#goal-5)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-5)
  * [Phases](#phases)
    + [1 Architecture](#1-architecture)
      - [Duration](#duration)
      - [Goal](#goal-6)
      - [SPS Team Members](#sps-team-members)
      - [Estimate](#estimate)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-6)
    + [2 System Setup](#2-system-setup)
      - [Duration](#duration-1)
      - [SPS Team Members](#sps-team-members-1)
      - [Estimate](#estimate-1)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-7)
    + [3 Development](#3-development)
      - [Estimated Duration](#estimated-duration)
      - [Goal](#goal-7)
      - [SPS Team Members](#sps-team-members-2)
      - [Outcome](#outcome-8)
  * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
      - [Items](#items)
  * [Summary](#summary)

## Features

The following outlines the necessary features required in order to meet the objective for a verion 1 release of Verto. All facets are to be considered complete before a final version 1 release.

In short, this version will focus on the following: 

1. Maximization of Security
2. Data Sovereignty
3. Third Party Plugin Mechanics
4. Build Integrity

In order to accomplish our goal, we will break down this roadmap into the following features.

### 1 Build Pipeline

[Read the docs](../architecture/pipeline.md )

#### Goal

The goal of this feature is to create a build pipeline that will, upon all pull requests, build and test the software for all platforms. 

#### Outcome

For this phase of development, we are looking at an MVP with the following tasks:

1. Linter
2. Automated Security Audit
3. Test suite
4. Build artifacts

Out of scope, for the first version:
1. Release Management
2. E2E 
3. Platform specific test

### 2 Webview vs Electron

[Read the docs](../architecture/webview.md )

#### Goal

The goal of this phase is:
1. Research
2. Impact assessment
3. Estimation of effort

#### Outcome

1. Go / No Go decision on the migration efforts for migrating to webview
2. Updated roadmap to reflect the deccision made

### 3 Sovereign Identity

[Read the docs](../architecture/si.md )

#### Goal

The goal of this phase is to create the MVP for the management of identity within Verto. This MVP includes:
1. Local storage
2. Third party api
3. Documenation on usage by plugin developers

Out of scope:
1. Multi-tenancy
2. Multi-identity management services

#### Outcome

1. Limited to local storage 
2. Data storage solution using w3c standard
3. Data retrival and store solution

###  4 Third Party Plugins

[Read the docs](../architecture/plugin.md )

#### Goal

The goal of this phase is to create the MVP for the management of third party app extension within Verto. This MVP includes:

1. Loading and validating of the plugins
2. Isolation of plugin (no visibilty into the parent view object) functionality
3. Integration mechanics for the SI feature to 3rd party developers
4. Plugin + Verto availablity mechanics. The process of having an app approved.

Note that the following is out of scope for this version of the feature.

1. Decentralized distribution of plugins
2. Update notification services
3. Visual dashboard management of plugins
4. Decentralized marketplace mechanics
5. Automation on 3rd party functionality integration

#### Outcome

1. A single plugin will be shipped with Verto. This plugin will adhere to all the mechanics and integrity checking that future plugins will be subject to, however, this plugin will not be distributed, discoverable, etc.
2. App runs in a sandbox and shares data with the SI API.
3. Review process defined and documented for inclusion into the Verto ecosystem

### 5 Installer

[Read the docs](../architecture/installer.md)

#### Goal

This feature will manage the installer and updater process. Note that it has a dependancy on the migration to Webview. Regardless, this feature needs to be optomized for better user experience and security.

#### Outcome

The outcome is based on the go / nogo for the migration of electron to webview. Once this decision has been made, this section, as well as any estimates, will need to be updated.

Regardless of the decision, the installer will need to:
1. Download and start the latest stable release for your platform
2. Enabled to integrate plugins

### 6 Verto Authenication Research

[Read the docs](../architecture/auth.md)

#### Goal

This feature intends to do the research and gather the requirements for more advanced usecases for authentication management. For example, integration with 2FA.

#### Outcome

The team will provide:
1. Documented strategy and implementation specs with reseach outcomes
2. Estimation of effort
3. Updates, if any, to this version of the roadmap

## Phases

The workload above will be broken down into phases. Note that these phases are fluid and not timeboxed. In this way, each feature will move through these phases independant of each other resulting in one feature having advanced through more phases than another.

### 1 Architecture

#### Duration
5 - 7 days

#### Goal
In this phase:

1. Research will be conducted
2. Documenation repo set up
3. System level documentation

#### SPS Team Members
1 System Architect - 100%
1 Senior Developer - 50%

#### Estimate
High level (+- 100%) estimates on the level of effort.

#### Outcome
1. Architecture components selected.
2. System architecture documented and avaiilable for public review

### 2 System Setup

#### Duration
3 - 5 days

**Goal**
This phase is about setting up the system for developers to begin developing the features in a clear, productive, and intuative way. This, in general, consists of the following facets:
1. Build infrastructure: This is the local build as well as CI build environments.
2. Developer experience: Tools that facilite the developers experience and maximize their contribution.
3. Documentation: The strategy, location, and management of documentation as the system begins to take form.

Additional goals, outside of engineering, is to publish broadly in order to receive community feedback on the direction of the architecture.

#### SPS Team Members
- 1 System Architect - 100%
- 1 Senior Developer - 50%
- 1 Security Analyst - 25%

#### Estimate
High level (+- 100%) estimates on the level of effort.

#### Outcome
1. Build integrity complete with local and CI build functions.
2. Developer experience maximized for broader community contributions.
3. Community feedback channels created and monitored

### 3 Development

#### Estimated Duration

N/A

No end date. The team size, and maximum capacity, but no minimum capacity, will be a reference to an ongoing burn rate. This is considered to be the Verto product development team and will, overtime, expand, and or contract.

#### Goal

This is the phase of developing a feature and preparing it for release. The phase follows the guidelines for Volentix such as:
1. Code lifecycle management
2. Documentation
3. Security

For a full description of the documenation process please see [our documenation.](https://volentixdocumenation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/partnership/featureLifecycle.html)

#### SPS Team Members
- 1 Security Analyst - 25%
- 1 System Architect - 25%
- 2 Senior Developer - 100%
- 2 Junior Developer - 100%

#### Outcome
1. Features meetings the standards of Volenix and is ready for release.

## Dependencies

In some cases, dependencies between other systems and other teams exist in order to facilitate a feature's completion. For example, VDex may be required to publish an API in order for Verto to consume it.

#### Items 
There are no known dependencies at this time.

## Summary

TODO: Finalize the summary which should include the total estamated effort and a breakdown of teams and potential release targets for each feature.